righteous are you O Lord when I plead
with you yet let me talk with you about
your judgments why does the way of the
wicked prosper
why are those happy who deal so
treacherously you have planted them yes
they have taken root
they grow yes they bear fruit you are
near in their mouth but far from their
mind but you O Lord know me you have
seen me and you have tested my heart
toward you pull them out like sheep for
the slaughter and prepare them for the
day of slaughter how long will the land
mourn and the herbs of every field
wither the beasts and birds are consumed
for the wickedness of those who dwell
there because they said he will not see
our final end if you have run with the
footmen and they have wearied you then
how can you contend with horses and if
in the land of peace in which you
trusted they wearied you then how will
you do in the flood plain of the Jordan
for even your brother's the house of
your father even they have dealt
treacherously with you yes they have
called a multitude after you do not
believe them even though they speak
smooth words to you
I have forsaken my house I have left my
heritage I have given the dearly beloved
of my soul into the hand of her enemies
my heritage is to me like a lion in the
forest it cries out against me therefore
I have hated it my heritage is to me
like a speckled vulture the vultures all
around are against her come
assemble all the beasts of the field
bring them to devolve many rulers have
destroyed my opinion they have trodden
my portion underfoot they have made my
pleasant portion a desolate wilderness
they have made it desolate desolate it
mourns to me the whole land is made
desolate because no one takes it to
heart the plunderers have come on all
the desolate heights in the wilderness
for the sword of the Lord shall devour
from one end of the land to the other
end of the land no flesh shall have
peace they have sown wheat but reaped
fawns they have put themselves to pain
but do not profit but be ashamed of your
harvest because of the fierce anger of
the Lord thus says the Lord against all
my evil neighbors who touch the
inheritance which I have caused my
people Israel to inherit behold I will
pluck them out of their land and pluck
out the house of Judah from among them
then it shall be after I have plucked
them out that I will return and have
compassion on them and bring them back
everyone to his heritage and everyone to
his land and it shall be if they will
learn carefully the ways of my people to
swear by my name as the Lord lives as
they taught my people to swear by bail
then they shall be established in the
midst of my people but if they do not
obey I will utterly pluck up and destroy
that nation says the Lord